Uploading the Introduction to this paper (#4)
greenelab/word_lapse_manuscript: content/02.introduction.md

# Introduction

> The human language is constantly evolving as words change their meaning over time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Language is constantly evolving, and the meaning that we ascribe to words changes over time. 
```

> For example, the word nice meant foolish or innocent back in the 15th-17th century; then, it underwent a positive shift toward meaning "pleasant or delightful"[@doi:10.1093/acrefore/9780199384655.013.323]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the word "nice" was used to mean foolish or innocent back in the 15th-17th century; then, it underwent a positive shift to its current meaning of "pleasant or delightful"[@doi:10.1093/acrefore/9780199384655.013.323]. 
```

> These shifts occur for many reasons, such as writers using new metaphors or substituting words for others with similar meanings (metonymy) [@doi:10.1093/acrefore/9780199384655.013.323]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These shifts occur for many reasons.
For example, writers may use new metaphors or substitute words for others with similar meanings in a process known as metonymy [@doi:10.1093/acrefore/9780199384655.013.323]. 
```

> Studying these shifts is essential as they enable a better understanding of the human language and its adaptations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Studying these shifts can provide a nuanced understanding of how language adapts to describe our world.
```

> Analogous to the human language, science is rapidly evolving as researchers devise new hypotheses and applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scientific fields of inquiry also change, sometimes rapidly, as researchers devise and test new hypotheses and applications.
```

> For example, a notable discovery would be the repurposing of the CRISPR-Cas9 system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the repurposing of the CRISPR-Cas9 system to a pervasive tool for genome editing has altered how we discuss molecular entities.
```

> This immunological system was first used in microbes to defend against invading viruses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microbes use this as an immune system to defend against viruses.
```

> Later around 2012, scientists repurposed this system to become a popular genome-editing tool [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2015.12.041].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scientists repurposed this system for genome editing [@doi:10.1126/science.1225829], leading to changes in the use of the term.
```
This review is _definitely_ a dangerous one to cite. Lander got in a ton of hot water for it for minimizing the contributions of Doudna and Charpentier. I switched the citation to the primary source.

> These types of discoveries within science are often shared via written communication [@doi:10.1021/ci00050a001], which consists of reporting results in the form of published papers [@doi:10.1073/pnas.98.2.381] and preprints [@doi:10.1101/833400; @doi:10.1126/science.aay2933].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Science is a field with substantial written communication [@doi:10.1021/ci00050a001], both via published papers [@doi:10.1073/pnas.98.2.381] and preprints [@doi:10.1101/833400; @doi:10.1126/science.aay2933].
```

> This communication medium provides an effective way of discovering longitudinal trends in scientific research as it allows for computational linguistic techniques to be applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examining scientific manuscripts with computational linguistics can reveal longitudinal trends in scientific research.
```

> Analyzing longitudinal changes in text consists of a computational linguistic task called semantic shift detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Studying changes in the use of word meanings is called semantic shift detection.
```

> This task involves generating a time series sequence and then detecting the presence of abnormalities within the constructed sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Approaches for semantic shift detection examine time series datasets that capture word usage patterns, both with respect to frequency and structure.
```

Typically, these time series are generated for individual words by training a unique model on text binned by a selected time period [@arxiv:1605.09096; @arxiv:1606.0282; @doi:10.18653/v1/N18-1044].

> Following time series generation, the next step is to align models to enable comparison [@arxiv:1411.3315].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!--Following time series generation, the next step is to align models to enable comparison [@arxiv:1411.3315].
```
I think this might be good in the methods but is too much detail for intro.

> A common technique for alignment is Orthogonal Procrustes [@doi:10.1007/BF02289451], but other ways to perform alignment have been used [@arxiv:1702.08359; @arxiv:1703.00607].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common technique for alignment is Orthogonal Procrustes [@doi:10.1007/BF02289451], but other ways to perform alignment have been used [@arxiv:1702.08359; @arxiv:1703.00607].-->
```

> The last step is to detect abnormalities, which is a task referred to as changepoint detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This task is accomplished through statistical techniques such as bayesian changepoint detection [@arxiv:0710.3742] or cumulative sum analysis (CUSUM) [@gustafsson].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Methods are then applied to identify "changepoints" where a word's meaning has changed [@arxiv:0710.3742,@gustafsson].
```

> After detection, the output is a listing of words that are candidates for further investigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This task of semantic shift detection has had a significant focus on areas outside of the biomedical research domain. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semantic shifts have been examined in many sources. 
```

> Notable examples are previous work that discovered armed conflict events via newspaper analysis [@doi:10.18653/v1/W17-2705; @arxiv:1711.05603;@doi:10.1017/S0003055417000570], developing new statistical laws for semantic changes [@arxiv:1605.09096; @arxiv:1606.0282], and using Twitter [@arxiv:1411.3315] to discover word usage changes over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analysis has included newspapers [@doi:10.18653/v1/W17-2705; @arxiv:1711.05603;@doi:10.1017/S0003055417000570], books [@arxiv:1605.09096], reddit [@arxiv:1606.0282], and Twitter [@arxiv:1411.3315].
```

> Also, previous work has shown how Information Retrieval research topics have changed over time [@doi:10.1007/s11192-018-2843-2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Researchers have examined topics in information retrieval [@doi:10.1007/s11192-018-2843-2], and in biomedicine COVID-19 has been examined multiple times [@doi:10.1142/9789811232701_0011,@arxiv:2102.07836].
```

> Regarding biomedical research, previous work has examined how titles for disease-related research papers changed over time [@doi:10.1142/9789811232701_0011], while other work examined how COVID-19 affected posts on Twitter [@arxiv:2102.07836].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Despite these discoveries, there has yet to be work done that utilizes biomedical papers on a broad scale to uncover semantic shifts through time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The amount of open access biomedical literature has dramatically increased in the last two decades, laying the groundwork for the large-scale analysis of semantic shifts in biomedicine.
```

> This paper plans to uncover semantic shifts through time by analyzing the biomedical literature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We examine these semantic shifts in this rapidly growing body of open access text.
```

> We use published papers and preprints as input to our data analysis pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We include both published papers and preprints in our analysis.
```

> We use a novel approach that contains multiple distributional models for each time period to account for an ongoing problem of word2vec model instability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We found that novel strategies integrating multiple models for each year sidestepped the challenge of instability in the machine learning models and allowed us to estimate intra- and inter-year variability.
```

> Following training, we use these models to detect semantic changes for each individual token and provide the community with a list of potential changepoints that future work can utilize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We identify semantic changepoints for each token.
We examine key cases and provide the full set of research products, including changepoints and machine learning models, as openly licensed tools for the community.
```

> Lastly, we created a website that encapsulates this work to provide users with a way to examine biomedical terms and their longitudinal trends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also created a webserver that allows users to analyze tokens of interest on the fly, examining both the most similar terms within a year and temporal trends.
```
